- [Narrator] The Java Cryptograpy Extension
is by far the most common provider
that you will use as a Java developer.
The JCE as it's also known by,
is the default provider for Oracle Java,
and in fact, it comes out of the box
with every JDK download.
Now the JCE provides implementations
for every single engine, however it does not
support every algorithm or every variation
of those algorithms that exists in the world today
and as such, you may need to use third party
providers to do the work that you want to do.
Now I wanna talk a little bit about the concept
of the unlimited strength JCE.
Prior to Java 8, update 151,
JCE Unlimited Strength was a separate download.
What this essentially meant, was that key sizes
could not be used if you did not download
this separate piece of software.
Now since Java 8.151,
the JCE Unlimited Strength is now included by default
with the JDK download, however, it's turned off.
There's a simple property, called crypto policy,
that you need to set to unlimited
if you are using Java 8.151 or greater,
Up until you get to Java 8.162.
And in Java 8, update 162, the
JCE Unlimited Strength is not only included,
but it's enabled by default, and in fact,
the same exists in Java 9 and Java 10
and we assume that Java 11 will have the same thing
at the time of this recording.
Now, this course will leverage the
Unlimited Strength JCE, and key size support
is the main impact that we will experience.
There are a few algorithm options that may not exist,
that we may be tied into, so as such,
you need to be using the Unlimited Strength JCE,
and you really have two ways of doing that.
The first is to upgrade to the latest version of
Java 8 or greater that you are using, in which case
it will include the Unlimited Strength JCE.
Now if you can't upgrade to that, then go to
Oracle's website, and go to the Java SE section,
and download the JCE Unlimited Strength
specific to your version of Java.
With that being said, I highly encourage you
to be on the latest and greatest Java,
simply from a security perspective.